The intrinsically disordered region of Drosophila Canoe facilitates dynamic coupling of adherens junctions to cytoskeleton during epithelial morphogenesis
Authors: Yufei Xiao, Corbin C. Jensen, Noah J. Gurley, Emily D. McParland, Kevin C. Slep, and Mark Peifer (Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599)
Abstract: Embryogenesis requires robust linkage between cell-cell junctions and the actomyosin cytoskeleton to allow self-organized cell movements without disrupting tissues. Drosophila Canoe (Cno) and its mammalian homolog Afadin are crucial scaffold proteins in the linkage complex, enabling dynamic cell-cell adhesion during epithelial morphogenesis. Both share the same domain structure with five folded domains and a long intrinsically disordered region (IDR), comprising over a third of the protein. IDRs are known to mediate multivalent protein interactions, and are implicated in phase separation, but its mechanism and biological function remain unclear. We found that deleting the IDR severely disrupts Canoe's localization from the apical junctions to the nucleus. It also impairs junctional function, leading to tissue defects. Surprisingly, despite low sequence conservation, Afadin IDR can largely rescue Canoe's role. We’re now dissecting the IDR to define functional regions. Alphafold predicts two conserved helices in the middle of the IDRs of both Canoe and Afadin. The C-terminal region contains a conserved proline-rich motif, potentially acting as an SH3 binding motif. The C-terminal is longer and more polar in amino acid composition compared to the N-terminal, which is more prion-like. We have made mutants individually deleting the conserved helices, the C-terminal or the N-terminal to the helices. Unexpectedly, all are dispensable for viability, and all mutant proteins localize to cell junctions. Sensitized assays suggest the C-terminal region may be more essential. We also generated a mutant in which we deleted both the N- and C-terminal regions, leaving the helices. This mutant is strongly impaired, with the mutant protein re-localized to the nucleus and function strongly reduced. Together, these findings underscore the IDR's indispensable role in Canoe's function. However, its sequence composition and identifiable motifs like helices or proline-rich regions only partially explain its morphological effects. In ongoing work, we will test the hypothesis that the IDR's entropic volume, rather than specific motifs, contributes to functional differences observed between mutants. Future efforts integrating insights from IDR biophysics and adhesion complex biology may unravel the mechanism of Canoe IDR function, such as in tension sensing and molecular assembly. 
