# Handwritten notes after listening to Yang on my last night on the island

I want to remember. This night of gifting paints. The cats fighting.
Muxuliuzhang - political commentary on cn. how did she get to where she is, and what she reads?
My purpose, i have to find for myself. All I have is time. I am the captain of my fate. I am the poet of the body.
honesty freedom courage hermit empathy patience devout.
time is all we have to live
time is lucid and awake
to face reality.
What is the meaning?
personal freedom
for the entire humanity (you are like me)
to add to pleasure, to subtract from pain
a heuristic for what is a good thing to do
researched from groups of people who I like. Who I like for their qualities and their works. Compare, if I like them for C, do I also agree with them in A and B. Why or why not?
people are consistent. ?
they are also influenced by their social environment. they also learn from who they admire.
Honesty, not fooling.
I extend my hands out to give. This is expect in something worth offering, proactively.
such as, writing, asking, reading, friending, experiment and test, travel, Meetup, Minerva
the encouraging part is, I can DIY levels of smart risks, such as the 40 day trek on the pilgrimage road to Santiago Spain.
I want to explore - sample - the choices (cities) while I can, and stay longer at the best current option.
to have the opportunity to research for values.
I have a lot of luck. I don't know many things. I am grateful.
I want to write my gratitude into letters.
How will I live with other people? This is the systemic part. I can run a workshop. But where does the money come from for this craft?
some people advocate before they research enough. It is like a motivated hypothesis test.
Some 70 year olds in one place are more baby-like than 20 year olds in another place.
Babies talk about food. Babies waste. Babies are enslaved by health insurance.
Some problems are not problems.
Problems require taste.
What is the root?
Is there a theory of everything? a problem at the end of every problem?
Non-problems should get automated.
What is left?
things that don't consume matter.
essentials.
