Where will I live this fall?

I want Berlin. Why? Fantasies. Nana and Hemingway say the States and Western Europe are two lifestyles. I imagine feeling like time and attitude will change flows on the other continent. About bumping into elderly scholars, immigrants, angels, rappers and poets, Olafur Eliasson, scientific computing students in giant libraries. I imagine how I will age well naturally, feeling like I can be someone going somewhere alone, doing few things willfully.

But can a different city change someone that much on its own? According to Linda, Berlin and London feel similar (in contrast to Hawaii), since they are both European cities. And how do you meet people in either city? I wonder what it feels like to really like a place that you want to keep living there, like Roujia for Berlin and Chao for Buenos Aires. Or if I will realize what travel and residence mean to me, like what Qiu Su, Emma Stiefel, or an ex patriot author wrote about.

From my unexpected months back at Hawaii, I observed that I can be content without much engagement with the world outside of my studies. I didn't plow forward to assist a lab at the University or make friends at Church at the Beach. I did learn a lot from our vegetable expert neighbor's help with yard affairs, and old friend Kyra inviting me to the local protest. With no schooling and not much peers in my sight, I took my time to eat, run, read, write. Things that haven't changed include few searches for development, incompletion in chunks of testable knowledge, pleasure of drawing. I think the solid feeling that I have some ground will stay.
